---
layout: post
title: Seccubus the new name for AutoNessus
---
Since it became apparent that the next version of AutoNessus was going to
outgrow the reference to Nessus, Tennable’s Network Security Scanner, due to
the inclusion of other scanners such as OpenVAS, NMAP and Nikto, the author of
the program, Frank Breedijk, decided to start a contest for a new name.

On the 19th of November Frank Breedijk announced that Jason Mansfield, who
runs the website [http://clinicallyawasome.com](http://clinicallyawesome.com),
has won the contest by sending in the name Seccubus. A bottle of Vueve
Clinquot champaing will be sent to him shortly.

The author has provided the following explanation of the name Seccubus:

> Seccubus is a mythical creature that helps security professionals analyze
and report the results of, repeated, vulnerability scans. Like its distant
cousins the [Succubus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Succubus) and
[Incubus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incubus) the Seccubus is also a
creature of the night. At night, or any other scheduled time, the Seccubus
draws its energy from repeatedly performing vulnerability scans of
infrastructures until the vulnerabilities become exhausted or die.  
The Inseccubus is the male counterpart of the Seccubus. While the Inseccubus
draws his life energy from the assessor by repeatedly requiring him to
(re-)analyse the same findings, the Seccubus get her energy from pleasing the
assessor by reducing the number of findings by means of delta reporting.

The name Seccubus was chosen from a list of over 50 ideas sent after the
contest was announced via the AutoNessus.com website, [Hacker Public
Radio](http://www.hackerpublicradio.com), [Paul dot
com](http://www.pauldotcom.com) and various other social media outlets like
Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn.

“I wanted a name that was completely different from AutoNessus” said Frank
Breedijk, explaining why suggestions like AutoVAS and AutoVAMP where turned
down. Other suggestions where turned down because their name was already taken
on media like twitter (e.g. VAsak, Vulnerability Assessment Swiss Army Knife)
or “simply because I didn’t like them” (e.g. Mick Douglass is awesome).

Now that the new name has been announced the “rebranding” will be complete
before the end of the year. The website
[www.seccubus.com](http://www.seccubus.com) is already live but still points
to the AutoNessus.com site. Also Frank’s twitter account,
[@autonessus](http://twitter.com/autonessus), has been renamed to
[@seccubus](http://twitter.com/seccubus) soon.

The response to the renaming contest was overwhelming and we would like to
thank everybody who participated.

